# Collaborative Publishing with Posit Publisher

[Posit Publisher](https://github.com/posit-dev/publisher)—the extension to
publish content to Posit Connect using
[Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and
[Positron](https://positron.posit.co/)—enables seemless collaboration. This
workflow guide explains how to collaborate with others on a deployed piece of
content.

## Deployment and Configuration files

Posit Publisher creates and utilizes two files for deploying content. Both are
inside of the `.posit/publish` directory in the same directory as
your entrypoint file.

The first is the Configuration file which describes how the content will be
deployed to Posit Connect.

An example of a Configuration file is `/.posit/publish/content-title-061E.toml`.

The second is the Deployment file which contains details on where the content
was deployed and its state. Deployment files are automatically generated by
Posit Publisher and update during deploys.

An example of a Deployment file is
`/.posit/publish/deployments/deployment-58A3.toml`.

Utilizing both of these files, alongside a credential and collaborator access
on Posit Connect, you and your collaborators can update and configure a single
piece of content.

### Collaborator access

The original creator of a piece of content on Posit Connect needs to give others
the collaborator permissions to update the content.

See the [Posit Connect User Guide - Access list settings](https://docs.posit.co/connect/user/content-settings/#set-collaborators)
documentation for more information on giving users access to update a piece of
content.

## Source control setup

Deployment and Configuration files found in `./posit/publish` are intended
to be committed into source repositories.

Once tracked in source control, anyone with access can easily collaborate on the
same piece of content.

After a deploy be sure to commit any changes to the Deployment and Configuration
files. Keeping them in sync with the content on Posit Connect will ensure that
collaborators have the most up-to-date details to continue where others left
off.

## Content bundle setup

If you and your collaborators aren't using source control, a content bundle
containing the source code and data for a piece of content can be downloaded
from Posit Connect. Content bundles are created when content is published and
they work great with Posit Publisher.

When deploying, include the Deployment and Configuration files so others can
use them to collaborate after they download the content bundle.

Posit Publisher includes both files automatically in configurations it generates
to make this effortless.

See the
[Posit Connect User Guide - Source Versions](https://docs.posit.co/connect/user/source-versions/)
documentation for more information on the content bundle source versions and
how to download them.

> [!NOTE]
> The content bundle will only contain files sent to Posit Connect. Be sure any
> files that you would like collaborators to have access to are in the
> Configuration's included `files`.
> For more details see the [Project Files documentation for Posit Publisher](./vscode.md#project-files).

## Tips

### Stay updated while collaborating

While collaborating on a piece of content, stay updated with the latest changes
others have made.

To do so, either pull down the latest changes from the repository or download
the content bundle from the latest Source Version on Posit Conect.

Doing so ensures that you have the most up-to-date content, but also
configuration settings and deployment details.

### First time deploying

If a deployment is pointed to a server that you have not deployed to before,
you may need to setup your credentials.

Posit Publisher makes this easy by prompting you to _Create a new Credential_
when the selected deployment requires a credential you don't have.

TODO: SCREEN SHOT
